When you put your face close to the mirror,
does your skin look like this?
But if you search online for
products to shrink pores, do the products that come out look like this?
And after you use all the products,
does your skin become like this?
Today we will talk about how to solve the problem of pores
. Okay, if you want to solve the problem of pores,
we must first start by accurately
determining the type of pores we have.
So how do we determine this?
I have summarized 5 dimensions
to help you determine
what type of pores you have on your face.
The first dimension is color.
Are your pores the same color as your skin
, or darker than your skin?
Are they black, brown
, or red?
The second is height.
Are they parallel to the surface of your skin
, or are they raised
or sunken?
The third is height. Is the shape
of this hole a perfect circle
or a teardrop?
The fourth is to see
if it reflects light. Is it matte
or shiny?
The fifth is to see if something can be squeezed out.
Is the squeezed out white,
gray, soft or hard?
Next, I will
explain
the five types of pores
based on these five dimensions . The first type is oily pores.
The appearance characteristics of oily pores are as follows:
its color is generally the same as
your skin color, parallel
to the face,
neither raised nor sunken.
The shape is generally a perfect circle. The round
hole will have obvious oily
reflections. It can usually be squeezed out by hand to produce
small white, soft particles.
Its location is
generally in the triangle area
, which is where we usually have oily pores.
The reason for the formation of this type of pore
is due to vigorous oil production
. The pores are enlarged
and look very large.
In addition,
the shiny mirror reflection caused by oil production
makes the whole skin look dirty and rough.
The second type is keratinized pores.
These pores
are usually slightly higher
than the skin color and
slightly raised .
Generally speaking, they are mainly round holes.
Some will have oily sheen, while
others will not be obvious.
When you squeeze them, they are very difficult to squeeze
out. However
, if something is squeezed out, it is usually hard gray particles.
The location is
usually on both sides of the nose and
half of the cheek.
Sometimes,
if it is acne-prone skin,
it will overlap with the acne area.
People with keratinized pores
often have closed comedones
because both closed comedones and keratinized pores
are caused by abnormal keratin metabolism. That is to say
, you have too much old dead skin cells
that are not discharged from your body in time,
so they are either blocked
or arched up near the pores.
This type of
pores sometimes
appear at the same time as the first type, which is oily pores.
The third type is saccharified pores.
The color of this type of pores
is generally darker brown at the edges.
The
height
is parallel to the surface of the skin
or slightly concave.
Generally speaking, they are mainly round holes,
and sometimes they are oval.
Generally, they are not accompanied by oily sheen
, have no reflections
, and can't squeeze out anything.
This type of pores
usually appear more
in the forehead or cheeks
. Because the outer edge of the pores
looks like a brown circle , it
looks like tiny spots
when you look at it from a distance
. It can only be seen when you get close to the mirror. When I looked closely, I found
that there was a hole in the middle.
It is a pore.
This is actually because
your entire face is undergoing glycation
, and the pores are just one of them.
Therefore, when taking care of your skin, you also need to fight sugar on the entire face
instead of using local products.
4. Inflammatory pores.
This type of pore usually has red edges
or
a faint red bump at the bottom. Generally
speaking,
it will be parallel to
or slightly raised on the surface of the skin. It
is mainly round holes,
usually not accompanied by oiliness
, and nothing can be squeezed out.
The appearance of this type of pore
is actually caused by local inflammation.
It will appear where you are sensitive.
Therefore, when you are doing skin care,
you should also focus on anti-inflammatory actions.
When your inflammation disappears,
your pore problem will also be solved.
So what specific products should
I use? We will talk about
the fifth type of carbonyl pores in detail later.
Generally speaking,
the color of carbonyl pores is consistent with the skin color.
If the height is high, they will be sunken in the skin.
The shape is usually teardrop-shaped or oval.
They are usually not accompanied by oiliness and may even
be dry and nothing can be squeezed out.
This type of pores is also called aging pores.
It is a part of the aging process of the whole face.
The reason for its occurrence
is that the collagen in your facial skin is lost.
After the loss, not only can your skin not support
your pores, but your pores can also not support
your skin. Our pores in the skin
are like a bag that can be lifted up.
But if the collagen is lost,
you can't lift this bag.
It will just "pop" and fall on the table
. You look very large
and irregular.
Your skin looks
enlarged pores
and Dull and
rough -looking,
aging-type pores
actually happen to everyone
as we age.
But if we
use anti-aging products in time
, we can delay their occurrence
or slow down their progression.
After hearing about the types, you'll definitely be anxious.
What if I have multiple types
? Do I need
to prioritize how to solve them?
Different types actually have priorities.
The first priority is urgent and important.
This priority
is inflammatory pores.
As long as there is inflammation on your face,
it will bring a series of various problems.
If you don't solve it,
it will continue to bring you new problems
. The second priority
is oily pores and keratinized pores.
They are relatively easier to solve
and can be solved locally.
And the two pore types that
show results relatively quickly.
The third priority
is the important but not urgent pore type
, namely the glycated pores and carbonyl pores.
Because both of them are problems of the whole face skin,
not local problems
, and require long-term care to be improved, then I will introduce
the specific products and their corresponding solutions
in order of priority. Let's talk
about the urgent and important inflammatory pores first.
The main method for inflammatory pores
is local or full-face soothing and anti-inflammatory treatment.
When your inflammation disappears,
your symptoms of pore discomfort
and the appearance of the pores
will be improved.
But when choosing products, you should pay attention to your skin type because
the anti-inflammatory and soothing ingredients corresponding to
dry skin and oily skin
are different.
For example, if you have oily or acne-prone skin,
the most suitable anti-inflammatory and soothing ingredient for you
is olive oil.
Olive oil is added to an effective concentration
and is more suitable for dealing with this type of pores.
There are these products
. If you have dry or combination skin,
you can choose
soothing and anti-inflammatory products
with ingredients such as
B5 ceramide
, urea
, Centella asiatica
, and Ectoin as
the main ingredients . Because
in addition to soothing and anti-inflammatory,
they also have moisturizing and repairing functions.
I have listed some products
for your reference.
Now let's talk about the two types of pores that are relatively quick
and easy to solve:
oily pores and keratinized pores.
These two types of pores
often appear on the face at the same time
, and their solutions are also similar.
The key word is cleaning.
Why do I say that?
Because you will find that both types
can squeeze out dirt
. If you squeeze out white and
soft sebum, then
you have oily pores,
but if you squeeze out hard,
dirty, gray keratin particles, then you have
keratinized pores.
The method of cleaning
is to dissolve it first
and then lift it out with external force.
The commonly used method
is to dissolve the blackheads. Sometimes
blackhead water
or acid or enzyme brushes are used
. The methods to pick them out
are either mud masks
, nose strips
, or cell clips.
There are also some useful products
for dissolving and pulling.
For example, the products for blackhead water, acid and enzyme brushes
are as follows, and
the mud masks used for pulling are as follows.
Then let's talk about
the two types of pores that are the most difficult and take the longest time to deal with
, namely glycated pores and glycated pores.
The common point between the two
is that it is not a local pore problem
, but an aging problem for the entire face.
Regardless of whether your skin has a high level of glycation
or a more serious loss of collagen,
it is a part of aging.
Therefore, when we solve it,
we do not use pore-type products,
but anti-aging products.
For example, for glycated pores,
we need to use full-face anti-glycemic
and antioxidant products,
such as these
. For carbonylation types,
we need to use full-face products that promote collagen
and reduce collagen loss.
Now we understand
the five types, how to judge
them, and what can be used for them. Finally, let me talk about
two very special pores.
The first type
is this pore. It looks very normal.
It doesn't produce oil, redness, or blackness,
but there is a small black dot in the center of the pore,
and you can't squeeze this black dot out. In
this case,
I suggest you use a magnifying glass to carefully look at
the black dot inside.
Is it a hair?
This young hair is called vellus hair
, which is the hair in the baby stage.
This hair
may never grow out
in its entire life. It is just at the bottom of the pore
and stays there quietly.
But you may feel
that having a small black dot is particularly bad.
Skin care products can't do anything about this,
and you must never pull it out with tweezers.
If you want to get rid of it,
you can go to the hospital for laser hair removal
to remove it.
There is another
type. There is a type of keratinized pore.
You can clearly see a
gray dirt in it,
but you can't squeeze
it out. It is actually a type of keratinized pore
. This keratin plug has existed for too long and
gradually oxidized
and turned black, forming such a huge dirt.
In this case
, This keratin plug has been in
your pores for a long time
, and the dirt you see
is just the tip of the iceberg.
90% of it is under your skin,
so you can't pull it out.
When you are dealing with it,
because we need a long time to dissolve it
and promote metabolism,
we try not to choose more irritating products
, but choose mild enzymes
to dissolve it little by little, and then
let it metabolize the product layer by layer
in the process of promoting keratin metabolism
. You can refer to
products such as enzyme brushes
used in keratin-type pores
, and then use them for a long time.
That's all for
today's pore topic.
If you have other skin care problems,
please leave me a message in the comment area.
I will regularly collect these problems
and answer questions or related knowledge topics.
If you like my content
or think my video helps you,
please like, subscribe and collect it.
In addition, I have also opened a membership channel. I will share
the evaluation data of various products in my laboratory
in the membership channel
from time to time
and actively answer questions from members.
Finally, I wish everyone healthy and good skin.